1. Explain order of execution of SQL.
    from
    where
    group by 
    having
    select
    order by
    limit

2. What difference between where and having?
    WHERE: Filters rows before grouping/aggregation.
    HAVING: Filters groups after aggregation.

3. What is the use of group by?
    The GROUP BY clause allows SQL to organize data into meaningful groups, which makes it easy to perform calculations and summaries on those groups using aggregate functions. This is highly useful in reporting and data analysis.

4. Explain all types of joins in SQL.
    INNER JOIN	Returns rows with matching values in both tables.
    LEFT JOIN	Returns all rows from the left table and matched rows from the right table; unmatched rows in the right table are NULL.
    RIGHT JOIN	Returns all rows from the right table and matched rows from the left table; unmatched rows in the left table are NULL.
    FULL JOIN	Returns all rows when there is a match in either table; unmatched rows from one table are NULL.
    CROSS JOIN	Returns the Cartesian product of the two tables.
    SELF JOIN	Joins the table to itself for hierarchical relationships.
    NATURAL JOIN Returns all matching matched rows

5. What are triggers in SQL?
    A trigger in SQL is a special type of stored procedure that automatically executes, or “fires,” in response to specific events on a table or view. Triggers are commonly used to enforce business rules, automatically update related data, audit changes, or maintain the integrity of data.

    After insert/update/delete
    Before insert/update/delte



6. What is stored procedures in SQL?

7. Explain all type of window functions?(for example Mainly rank, row_num, dense_rank, lead & lag)

8. What is difference between delete, truncate and drop?

9. What is difference between DDL, DML and DCL?

10. What are aggregate functions and when do we use them? explain with few example.

11. Which is faster between CTE and subquery?

12. What are constraints and type of constraints?

13. Types of keys?

14. Different type of operators?

15. Difference between group by and where?

16. What are views?

17. What is difference between varchar and nvarchar?

18. What is difference between char and nchar?

19. What are index and there types?

20. List the different types of relationships in SQL?

21. Differentiate between UNION and UNION ALL.

22. How many types of clauses in SQL?

23. Difference between primary key and foreign key?

24. Find second highest salary of an employee?

25. Write retation query in SQL?

26. Write year-on-year growth in SQL

27. Write a query for cummulative sum in SQL

28. Difference between function and store procedures in SQL?

29. Do we use variables in views?

30. What are the limitations of views?
